# python-api-challenge

   This challenge mainly involved requesting, extracting and utilizing data from two major API’s, geoapify and the open weather API. 
In the WeatherPy section of this challenge, a list of over 500 cities were randomly generated and placed into a data frame. Weather data for each city was sequentially requested from the open weather API, extracted and placed into relevant variables, and used to create a new data frame with complete weather information for each city. 


With the data frame complete, analysis through matplotlib then took place. The city’s latitude information was plotted against various data points such as maximum temperature, humidity, cloudiness, and wind speed. Next, the cities found in the data frame were split into two others: one that contained only cities found in the northern hemisphere and another which only contained cities in the southern hemisphere. These two data frames were also plotted with consideration to the same criteria as stated above. However, additional analysis in the form of linear regression modeling was also achieved. This analysis proved that there is little correlation in both data frames between latitude and humidity or cloudiness. Additionally, there was no substantial correlation between wind speed and latitude for cities found in the northern hemisphere, though a weak negative correlation was seen in the southern hemisphere cities. In contrast, stronger correlations were found when considering the latitude and maximum temperature of these cities. In the Northern hemisphere a significantly strong negative correlation between the data exists, showing that maximum temperatures drop as latitude increases. In the Southern hemisphere, a moderately strong positive correlation also exists, proving that temperatures rise the closer a city is found to the equator. 


Finally, in the Vacationpy section of this challenge, the previous randomly selected list of cities was mapped using an hvplot. The size of the markers for each city was dependent on its humidity, with more humid locations boasting a larger marker. Next our initial data frame full of cities was narrowed down into a list of potentially favorable vacation locations. This was achieved by filtering through the data frame and selecting the cities which had maximum temperatures between 21 and 27 degrees Celsius, cloudiness of 0, and wind speeds below 4.5 meters per second. Out of our 500+ cities, only 11 fit our criteria and were placed into a separate data frame. 


With our new data frame populated with potentially viable vacation cities, we then relied on geoapify to give us the closest hotel that could be found within a 10,000 meter radius of each city. First, an additional column called “Hotel Name” was added to our data frame. Next we created a for loop with try and except clauses to iterate on each city in the frame, execute a request to geoapify based on the specifics of each city, and store/populate the name of the closest hotel found within our determined radius.  Of our 11 cities, 3 did not have any hotels found within 10,000 meters, making them unviable places for a vacation. All 11 cities were mapped using an hvplot, and included additional information in their hover messages including the name of the country which the city can be found and the name of the hotel closest hotel that was returned by the API.
